Their performance display features
a horizontal bar chart to help you understand your data at a glance.
Bar charts show discrete numerical comparisons across categories.
Let's use this display in the AdWords keywords report,
to analyze the most popular incoming paid keywords.
This display is already selected and
the secondary dimension keyword match type is added here.
Results with values that were not set,
are filtered out to focus the analysis on available keywords and match types.
Looking at the Ecommerce metric group,
you see the top two keywords driving traffic to the site.
Google merchandise store and Google merchandise.
You can see data for sessions and transactions.
The keyword Google merchandise store,
drove the most sessions and the largest percentage of transactions,
followed by the number two, Google merchandise.
But looking at the next few rows,
you can see the same keywords with
a different match type and the impact this has on sessions and transactions.
Match types can have a major influence on AdWords account performance.
They're one of the controls you use in your bid strategy.
Let's take a closer look at match types to understand what the data is telling us.
Broad match is the default match type.
It's called broad because it allows your ad to match
the widest possible range of searches,
that are still somewhat related to your keyword.
Your ads will show for synonyms,
related searches and other variations.
Exact match is the most restrictive of the keyword match types.
With this type, users only see your ad when they
type your exact keyword phrase by itself.
Since broad matched ads are set up to reach the widest possible audience,
searchers might see and click your ad even when they're querying other topics.
These types of keywords can drive clicks,
but you want to monitor them closely to
make sure you're getting the best return on your investment.
Back in the report,
you can change the metric group to clicks to view advertising metrics like click,
cost, click-through rate, cost-per-click and most importantly,
return on ad spend.
Let's compare ROAS to sessions.
Looking at rows one and two,
you see that Google merchandise store exact match is driving 26% of the traffic,
but their return on ads spent is far greater for the Google merchandise keyword.
In row five, Google merchandise store,
broad match also has pretty high ROAS.
We can learn even more about ad performance by segmenting by
device category which is another option for AdWords targeting.
Segmenting on mobile reveals a drastic drop in ROAS for these keywords.
If you view the desktop segment,
the ROAS for our second keyword spikes even higher than before.
It's important to monitor keyword performance over
time to make sure these insights are statistically significant.
As you do that,
use the performance display to see comparisons across
categories and to spot optimization opportunities quickly.